Hi, my name is Joanne, most people call me Jo. This is the first time that I've attempted something like this. Fingers crossed, I get it to work. I wrote this back in 2003, I hope it gives you all some idea of my background.

The Landscape of my Life

My parents when I was born lived near Malvern. When I was about two months old they moved to the country. I remember being told how I was moved on the back seat of my Mum’s blue mini in the baby bath. This was obviously before child restraint laws came in. I have an older half sister, Julie, younger brother, Stevon and two younger sisters, Melissa and Kay. The house we lived in is made of blue stone and sits on four acres of land. Over the years we had goats, cows, sheep, pigs, ducks, turkeys, chickens, dogs and cats. 

My dad was employed as a ganger for the railways. He repaired tracks and removed debris; sometimes he had to remove dead sheep from the line. Dad would come home looking sad and tired covered in blood with spasmodic bits of wool stuck to his shirt after one of those call outs. As a child of a railway worker and living in the country, every December Father Christmas would arrive on the bluebird train to hand out presents. This was always met with great excitement and we would all be listening for the rumble from the tracks that would herald his arrival.

Our nearest neighbours were given the courtesy title of Auntie and Uncle. I still refer to them with the title even though they have told me many years ago that it isn’t necessary anymore; old habits are hard to stop. They lived half a mile down the road in either direction, which with hot weather was dusty and bumpy, and in wet weather boggy and slippery. The closest bitumen was four miles away at a small town called Manoora. The closest town to us was Waterloo, one and half miles away. The town consisted of a pub (in Australia it can’t be a town if it doesn’t have a pub), the general store that was also the post office and a garage that worked on tractors and trucks more than cars. Now the shops and the pub are closed and people live in them as houses.

I was three years old when my Auntie Glenda got married. I remember sitting on a pile of phone books under the hair dryer and being bored. Constantly being told off for fidgeting. We then back to my Grandfathers house and I got to put on a pretty pale blue dress that had a matching blue bow for my hair and carry a basket of colourful flowers. Everyone ready we went to the church. I have been told many times how I couldn’t see what was happening properly from where I was supposed to stand. So I hung over the altar rail to get a better view. Bored with that I then collected the scattered gumnuts (part of the decorations) from off the carpet and was trying to give them to people to hold.

My mum was given a piglet that was three days old, that we named Mate. She lived in a wooden box on top of a plastic sheet next to the heater. At first we couldn’t get the Mate to drink from a bottle but discovered that if you put a finger above her snout she would push up against your finger and drink. As Mate grew she thought she was a dog and would follow us around the yard and help herd up other animals. 

Now all of us kids had been told how vicious pigs could be especially when they are farrowing (giving birth), so stay away! Mum and dad had gone to Adelaide for the day. We three kids were at home and Mate seemed distressed. We were all in the pen comforting her telling her everything would be ok when suddenly there was a piglet. Mate started to get up with a snort and out of fear I backed up to the fence. My brother jumped about four feet to the top of the rail and we waited with baited breath to be attacked and mauled. Mate nudged me, nudged my brother’s foot with her snout then nudged the new piglet. We let out a sigh of relief and started patting her again. One of the piglets was born in a sack. I ripped open the sack and turned the piglet upside down to drain out any mucous patting its chest. It gave a cough and then took a breath. It was the best feeling to know I had saved its life. Mum and dad arrived home to find my brother sitting at the head of Mate soothing her, my sister trying to keep (in the end sixteen) piglets in the barricaded section with a red light and me at the rear of the pig delivering piglets.

As children the three of us stole some flour and sugar from the kitchen. Then off to the chook house we would go to get a couple of eggs and some lemons from the tree behind the laundry. A small plastic beach bucket was used and we would go out in the paddock and collect some milk from the cow. Now we had everything we needed and we would head for our tree house. Under the huge pine tree we had dug a small pit with a fire burning in it. Balanced on rocks an old barbeque hot plate over the flame. We made the best pancakes in the world. We always thought that our parents had no idea that we used to do this, that is until a few years ago when my mum made mention of it. So much for being sneaky!

Dad had a Yamaha ‘90’ motorbike and he made a sidecar for it. When old enough for our feet to reach the pedal to change gears we were allowed to ride. The feel of the wind whipping through your hair and stinging your face was exhilarating. It was a form of freedom to just take off to some obscure part of the ranges and sit and look out into the valley with its patch work of paddocks joined by fence lines with trees and houses appliquéd in a haphazard order on this quilt of life.

We had two cows that were milked twice a day. Every morning after milking four litres of milk would be put through the separator. This involved putting the milk in a large metal bowl at the top of the separator and then turning the handle on the side. As the handle speed increased so did the frequency of the tings. When the right amount of tings per minute was obtained you turned on the tap that allowed the milk to run into the separator. Two tubes came out the side of the separator, one had skim milk pouring out of it and the other was cream. We would get two litres of cream every morning, which was as thick as the double dollop cream. The cream was then used to make butter in the butter churn. Again you had to turn the handle and keep the tings at certain speed. Mum discovered that the kenwood chef mix master was by far easier to use and so no more churning. 

The Behn homestead is were my Grandpa, Uncle Henry and Grand Aunt Ida resided. My Grandmother died when I was about a year old. Going to Grandpas was fun. We helped with the milking that was done by machine and about twenty cows were milked at the same time. It was so different from the hand milking done at home. The best part was going to a small room where the big vat sat, getting the ladle and scooping out the delicious, creamy, warm milk to drink.

Grandpa always had a lot of half wild cats that were good for keeping the mice population down in the hay sheds. I used catch the half grown kittens, which was no easy feat. I would throw an old blanket over them and then dodging claws and teeth hold them patting and talking to them until they calmed down. I would name them and each would know their name and come when I called. Grand Aunt Ida would tell people about how I was a great cat tamer; the way she spoke of it, I sounded more like a lion tamer.

My Nanna lived at Loxton on the river Murray.  To visit was a three-hour trip in the car. We would have a competition as to who saw the river and then who saw the local television tower first. The tower was the most important as that meant we were close to Nanna’s. We would leave in the morning and get to Loxton at about lunchtime and Nanna would always have home made pasties in the oven. I’ve never had pasties that tasted and smelt as good as Nanna’s. The other thing that she always made for us was dumplings cooked in a golden syrup sauce served with cream or ice cream, so sweet and sticky, YUM!!!

We would go yabbying with Uncle Joe who lived near Nanna. We all love Uncle Joe. He is so funny. He always referred to us kids as ‘little injuns’ and he had a huge bellow of a laugh. One time we had caught so many yabbies that they had to be cooked in the old copper. We put newspaper on nanna’s kitchen table and the pile of yabbies was about six inches off of hitting the light. What a feast we had and my nanna was so quick at getting the yabbies out of their shell she was helping us kids. To see someone so old could have such quick nimble fingers was awesome. At the feast Uncle Joe grabbed up a yabby and ate it with out shelling it!!!


Granddad died when I was about seven. He was the last blacksmith in Loxton. I can remember him banging on metal and feeling the heat from the forge. We were not allowed to go to far into the blacksmith shop, as it was too dangerous. Granddad had given up smoking many years before I can remember but because of this he had an old kit bag that was full of crown mints and liquorice allsorts and if we were good we got to go and get the bag from under his bed and pick out a few lollies to eat.

My Auntie Kath works at the Loxton historical village on weekends. I have been to the village many times and it is with pride that I look at the things my family has there on display. When Granddad died his blacksmith shop was torn down and reconstructed at the village. A button next to a picture of my grand parents when pressed is the voice of Uncle Joe pretending to be granddad describing what it was like to be a blacksmith. In the town hall my great grandmother has her picture and kit bag with the vials she used to mix up her herbal remedies. She was also the midwife for the area.

I have written about so many happy memories and there are many more, but not all my memories are good. The thing that happened which was the worst in my life was with out a doubt the day my sister died.

Kay was born on the 29th of March 1974. She was a happy baby with big brown eyes and dark hair. My dad had always wanted one of us kids to get his eye colour. My brother and I had been playing with her, we had a plastic green car and we were pushing her around the kitchen table in it. She was laughing and smiling amongst our whoops of fun. Kay was due for her third triple antigen shot. This was in the days when they didn’t realise that if a child has a cold that they shouldn’t get the shot as it can have an adverse affect. Kay had the sniffles when mum took her in for the shot the following day. The next day her sniffle had turned into what seemed like the flu. She was sick for a week when mum noticed that her breathing was wheezy and then she vomited this green liquid. The doctor told mum ‘to take her home and give her some medicine and if she hasn’t improved by tomorrow bring her back’. Well mum took her back the next day and then had to wait as it was the kind of surgery where first to sit in the waiting room went in first to see the doctor. Mum sat there for a couple of hours before it was her turn. The doctor didn’t even get into the surgery properly when he told mum to get Kay to the Adelaide hospital. Mum got dad from work and they raced to Adelaide. The doctor had described their car to the Riverton ambulance to try and find, catch them. Kay died in my mother’s arms before they could reach the hospital. It was the 21st of February 1975, the day before my mum’s birthday.

We had been staying at a neighbour’s house. Auntie Elfreda had been telling us for hours that Kay was really sick. I remember thinking ‘I’m getting sick of hearing this!’ Mum and dad got back very late that night and we rushed out to greet them. We asked ‘Where is Kay?’ Mum looked at Auntie Elfreda and said ‘ Haven’t you told them’ in a funny sounding voice. Mum then looked at Stevon and I and said ‘Kay has gone to be with baby Jesus’. I felt as though I had been hit in the stomach, I wanted to run away and hide. The thought of this is wrong; it can’t be, skated through my mind. All the while knowing that it was true from the look on mum and dad’s faces.

I recall having a weird dream the night after Kay died. In the dream we receive a call from the hospital in Adelaide to say they are sorry, there’s been a mistake, Kay isn’t dead. They are going to send her home in the post. We are all waiting at the roadside mail delivery box waiting for the mailman. The mailman arrives and there is a brown paper wrapped box tied up with brown string. We are all so happy and then I would wake up to face the reality.

The funeral is still a crystal clear memory. So many cars lined up along the road, a good quarter of a mile either side of the church and more parked in the small paddock next to the manse. There were lots of flowers next to the steps leading into the church. A white coffin with silver handles and a silver cross and name plate on the lid sitting on a chair in front of the pulpit. I remember the coffin being lowered into a dark hole in the ground. Throwing a red rose on to the top of the coffin. So many tear stained faces. 

People trying to comfort my mum telling me, ‘leave her alone today’. Looking back everyone was comforting my mum, my dad got a few words of sympathy and we children I suppose were to young for anyone to consider how it had affected us. I have never forgotten that sense of loss. 


Jo Fairey
17th March 2003
