A Love Lost, A Love Found

You are my lighthouse, warning me of danger.
The light has gone out! I didn’t know you were really the reef!

You are my anchor, keeping me grounded.
The anchor detached, I’m adrift on a turbulent sea.

You are my port in a storm, keeping me safe in a warm hug.
You are the storm! I’m scared and alone.

You are my compass, to guide and direct me.
The compass is gone, I’m so confused and I don’t know what to do!

I love you with all my heart, protect it and guard it, as it is the most precious gift I have to give you.
My heart is crushed, obsolete! The most precious thing I could give destroyed to be given to no one!

Is there a new keeper of my heart? Slowly but surely it has been patched and put back together. Caring soft words, wanting what is best for me, making me smile, a gentle caress, a loving embrace, to see love shimmering in the depth of your eyes, passion lit in the meeting of lips have been the keys to make my heart whole again.

I think I have found the true keeper of my heart. For his heart is entwined with mine so for either of us to hurt the other it would be like crushing both our hearts. I love you my darling and I believe our hearts knew each other from the moment we spoke to each other. They saw a similarity and a bond so strong that not even the miles that separate them, for now, to ignore. 

When we were together physically our hearts sang the same tunes and revelled in being so close. To be parted after three short weeks they cried and despaired at not being able to stay together. Given hope in the thought that they will be together again one day, hoping one day to be together until one or both stop beating. Until that time they will beat in unison to the same rhythm of life.

An impossible dream coming true? I’ve always had a secret hope of one day getting remarried. I just never thought it would happen. In fact I had given up all hope of even finding a man who would love me. Now? The man I think the world of has asked me to marry him. So now we will be able to
