It was Friday …. Wahooooo! Start of a long weekend, Australia day. I was now eighteen years and two weeks old. Mum and Dad were going to a camp and so the weekend looked set for just lazing around in the summer heat. Reading a good book, being able to have a cigarette and maybe an alcoholic drink without hiding! Doing whatever I wanted. Then Mum’s voice brought all that to a screaming halt! ‘Why aren’t you packing?’ ‘What?’ I replied, ‘I’m not going anywhere.’ The response from this was ‘Oh yes you are! Your going with us to this camp at Moonta!’ I tried to argue but to no avail.  My mother had spoken and so that was that! So I started packing for the trip to the seaside town with an air of great disdain. If I had known then what I know now and how that weekend was going to change my life, I would have argued more and maybe organised to stay at a friend’s house.

The trip was uneventful, belying what lay ahead of me. My parent’s years before had bought a caravan and so we were to stay at the caravan park. Some of the other people attending the camp were staying there also others were staying at the Moonta scout hall. What was to change my life was at the scout hall. What was left of Friday we spent checking out the caravan park and the beach and then we all went over to the scout hall to see who was there. I didn’t meet him that night as he arrived late in the evening and we had already gone back to the caravan.

Saturday loomed with bright sunshine and the usual summer heat. We got organised and then at about mid morning we went to the scout hall, the communal meeting place. That’s when I met him for the first time. Quite a group had gathered and I noticed him sitting at the table amongst the throng. This guy asked my father to read something and he said, ‘” Sorry, I can’t, I left my glasses at home.’ This caused a small chuckle to ripple around the hall. It was an in house joke, my dad has poor reading skills and that was his favourite excuse. My dad then explained the joke to me. ‘At a meeting weeks before hand a friend of ours was asked to read a passage from a book, he had declined saying he had left his glasses home, my Dad who was next in line was asked next, he used the same excuse and then finally the man who was to change my life was asked, he said the same thing which created much amusement on the night as three people in a row had forgotten their glasses.’ The guy sitting at the table half turned and said, ‘Hi, my name’s Mike.’ I replied, Hi Mike, I’m Jo. He then asked, ‘Jo could you read me my stars please, I’ve left my glasses at home.’ I was like fine, ‘What star sign are you?’ So I read what was written for Pisces in the paper out to him. So that is how we first met, granted not that exciting. We left not long after that back to the caravan.

That night there was to be a meeting at a neighbouring town hall. I knew Mike would be there and so as I got ready there was an air of anticipation as to what the night might hold. My parents and I arrived early and so we saw many people arrive. Finally he arrived with some friends. I did a double take as the first thing I noticed was a white cane in his hand as his was being led into the hall by his mate. When he was seated my parents went over to greet him. After the meeting I spent what was left of the night sitting next to him talking. I was told how many years before he had been mugged in the city centre and left for dead. He was left totally blind as a result of a broken optic nerve most probably because of the amount of skull fractures he had endured during the mugging. He told me how he had been married before and had a daughter. That he was living in the same house as his mother and grandfather. That night I went back to the caravan feeling a strange warm glow around my heart.

The next day was spent wandering around the town, swimming and lying on the beach. Lying on the white sand I contemplated the last forty-eight hours. I liked Mike he seemed really nice and he was easy to talk too. That night there was to be a dance at the Moonta scout hall. I went through the usual worry of what to wear and how will I wear my hair, does my make-up look all right? Looking back I have to laugh at myself after all he was totally blind, did any of that really matter? 

The time finally arrived for us to get in the car and head for the Scout hall. As I walked through the front double doors I scanned the room to find him. There he was with his mate and a small group of friends, sitting on a bench along the wall towards the back of the hall. I walked over and said, ‘Hi Mike.’ He responded and invited me to sit next to him. We talked for hours once again, one thing that became a topic was fishing, we both enjoyed fishing and so at about ten o’clock, Mike suggested we walk to the jetty and try our luck as he had brought a couple of fishing rods. I told my parents what we were planning and then gathered up the rods, tackle and bait and started walking to the jetty, a good three-kilometre hike. We sat rods in hand and chatted. Some time after midnight my parents came down to check that all was ok. Finding nothing amiss going on they went to the caravan. Not long after that we started walking back to the scout hall. About three quarters of the way back Mike said that he needed a rest that his legs were aching, inquiring if there was anywhere to sit. I saw a grassy patch amongst the trees not far from us and suggested we could sit there. Putting all the fishing gear in a pile beside us we sat down. Michael then said, ‘ There’s something I’ve been wanting to do all night.’ I replied with, ‘There is? What?’ His reply was ‘To kiss you.’ With that reply still seeping into my surprised brain, a small gasp escaped from between my lips, he lent over and kissed me!

Oh my God! He had kissed me! Me! He then said with a small chuckle, ‘Hmmm that was nice, can we try that again?’ I chuckled too and said, ‘I think we should.’ We kissed and cuddled under a blanket of stars on a clear, warm summer night for awhile and then decided we had better make a move for the hall before a search party was sent out to look for us. It was very late by now and Mike wouldn’t hear of me walking back to the caravan and so we got some bedding and lay together on the air mattress in each others arms slowly drifting off to sleep. 

The next morning I was awoken by the soft pressure of lips kissing my cheek and softly spoken words with the hint of a chuckle saying, ‘ Time to wake up sleepy head.’ As I slowly woke and took in my surroundings a smile formed on my lips as I thought to myself, I’m not dreaming last night really happened! Not much else to do with about twenty other people around than to give him a kiss on the cheek back, get up and start packing away the bedding. Mike’s mate then drove us to the caravan park. I remember the look of shock, horror on the face of the guy driving as we neared my parent’s caravan. He was then explaining to Mike what he saw, my Dad was standing at the front of the caravan with a huge wrench in his hand watching our approach. It was we found out as we stopped just a moment in time. My dad just happened to be disconnecting the gas tank hose from the caravan, we were going to be leaving later that day and he was beginning to prepare for the trip home. Mike let out a sigh of relief as Dad was explaining what he was doing. Mike later told me how when his mate told him about the scene he was thinking my Dad was waiting for him because he had kept me out all night. Mike and his mate spoke to my parents for awhile and then headed back to the hall; we would call in later as there was to be one last get together before everyone went their separate ways.

My family and I arrived at the Scout hall just after lunch. Mike was sitting at one of the tables and so I joined him there. He said he had enjoyed my company that weekend and that he would like to keep in contact with me, I replied I had enjoyed the weekend too and would like to stay in contact too. We exchanged addresses and phone numbers after a mad scurry to find a pen and some paper. We talked for a while longer and then it was time to go. Mike and his mate were leaving before us, just before Mike climbed into the car he held me tight and kissed me before handing me the pendant with his birth sign on it from around his neck. He said as he handed it to me, ‘my daughter gave me this pendant, so I’m going to want it back. I’ll buy you a pendant with your star sign on it and then I’ll have to see you again to make the exchange. In the meantime wear it and think of me.’ Mike then gave me another kiss and as he climbed in the car said, ‘ I’ll ring you tonight sometime, OK?’ ‘OK’ I replied with a smile. I was so happy in that instant! If only I had been able to see what was to happen in the future, I would have ran!

That night once we got home I hovered near the phone. Will he ring me? At about 8:00pm the phone rang! I rushed to it and it was Mike on the other end. We talked of our individual trips home and reminisced about the weekend. We discussed how maybe in a couple of weeks I could maybe travel to Port Noarlunga to visit him for the weekend. Port Noarlunga is a seaside suburb to the south of Adelaide. I lived just out of Waterloo a small country town in the mid north of south Australia. We lived approximately 100 miles apart. It was about midnight when we finally said our goodbyes and hung up the phone. This became a ritual ever night, taking it in turns to ring the other. 

Then finally the weekend came that I was to visit. I took Friday off school so that I could travel. Catching the train from Manoora to Gawler, at about 8am, then another train into Adelaide to then catch yet another to Noarlunga Centre. Here we would meet again and I would meet his mother for the first time. As I travelled I wondered what his mother would be like and, as I was to meet his daughter the following day I wondered what she was like too. Would they all like me or take an instant dislike? I thought about what the house might be like and decided that it was maybe a small bungalow style house as Mike had told me it was originally the family’s summerhouse it was close to the beach and their other house used to be closer to the city.

I arrived at Noarlunga at about lunchtime. On alighting from the train I saw Mike and a white haired, petite woman standing next to him. I walked over to greet them with my heart pounding in my chest. I greeted Mike and then he introduced me to his mother, Judith. She smiled and said, ‘Hi.’ I said hi back as I shook her hand. ‘You must be hungry and tired with travelling by now so lets get going as lunch is waiting and you can relax a little.’ Judith smiled at me and with that we were heading for the car. It was only about a ten-minute drive to the house from the train station.

As we turned into their street I looked in amazement at their house. The house, located five houses up the street from the beach near the top of the bluff, offered views of the river mouth and shoreline. It had three garages and a workroom off the curved driveway and above that the rest of the house stood. Glass was a major feature as sliding glass doors spanned the front of the house. So much for my thoughts on it being a small bungalow styled house. This place was huge! I was later to find out that the house had won best house of the year when it was constructed in 1968. It had featured on the front cover of ‘Better Homes and Gardens’, an Australian magazine, that year. I was thinking to myself as I surveyed all of this, these people are rich and so way out of my league! 

Lunch was to be served in the sunroom, as I entered a portly elderly gentleman with ruddy cheeks was already sitting in there. Mike introduced me to his grandfather, Poppa. 
