The Willow Tree

Walking slowly across the soft green grass towards the willow tree I admire its outer beauty and how it stands proud. It’s green leaves and branches hanging elegantly swaying slowly in the gentle breeze. Some of which are caressing the water of the pond next to it causing small ripples to float away from it in ever-bigger circles.
Upon reaching the outer branches I open the curtain they create and see limbs torn, shattered and gnarled with age. Although torn and shattered on the inside the willow tree still stands proudly and lives on; many not know what lies behind the curtain until they like I get close enough to see behind the curtain of green.

Sitting in the cool of the willow I let my thoughts wander. Drifting through the many things that had happened in my life. Things which had left me torn and shattered on the inside and yet how I too could put on a happy outside with a smiling face. Telling people how I was fine when inside I was cringing and wanting to hide deeper within myself. Scared that people would see the scars; find a weak spot and hurt me again. 

I then wondered how many other people feel this way? To scared to show their true self for fear of being hurt. Like the willow tree creating a shroud around itself so only a few who get close enough see the pain inside. I decided that day to take a chance and hold the green curtain that surrounded me to be opened a little and let people see some of the scars. 

I shared some things with a few acquaintances and they pulled back the green curtain that was surrounding them which I until then didn’t even know existed. This was the start of realising that we all have our own a green curtain like the willow tree. Sharing things with others not only allows you to be able to be more open but helps others to be more open too. If we all took the time to open our green curtain and therefore help others would people still suffer from depression? Would it help reduce the amount of suicides? Could it even help those who turn to drugs to make there curtain complete? Just wondering ….. What do you think?


Jo Fairey
25th February 2006
